# automated-planning-assignment
Contains PDDL files and bash scripts for the assingment of the "Automated Planning: Theory and Practice" Course at University of Trento.

## Introduction  
This project contains pddl files to model different domain-problem pairs where
a robotic agent is required to deliver crates containing resources such as food 
or medicine to injured people, distributed among several locations, in increased 
levels of complexity. A full description of the assignment can be found in the 
"assignment_description.pdf" file.

## Installation  
The main requirement to run the source code in this folder is `planutils`.
You can install it by running the following:  
```
$ pip3 install planutils
```

In order to install and run the content of _problem\_4/plansys2\_assignment_ you will need the `colcon` tool,
__Robotic Operating System__ infrastructure (ROS2 in short) and the ROS2 Planning System.  
To install colcon on Ubuntu 20.04, run:  
```
$ curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/dirk-thomas/colcon/script.deb.sh | sudo bash  
$ sudo apt install python3-colcon-common-extensions
```  
In order to install the ROS2 infrastructure, please refer to the [official documentation](https://docs.ros.org/en/foxy/Installation.html). The source code is tested under the __Foxy__ ROS2 release. Then, build the ROS2 Planning System from source following [these docs](https://intelligentroboticslab.gsyc.urjc.es/ros2_planning_system.github.io/build_instructions/index.html).  
  
Once all of the dependencies have been installed, run the following and follow the instructions on your terminal:  
```
$ cd problem_4/plansys2_assignment
$ ./install.sh
```

## Repo content  
The repository has four folders (_problem\_1_ to _problem\_4_) each containing the
proposed solution to the four problems described in "assignment_description.pdf". Each folder contains:  
- a __src__ directory, where the __domain.pddl__ and __problem.pddl__ are located;  
- a __command.txt__, which tells which command (and, thus, which planner) to invoke to parse the 
domain-problem pair in the corresponding __src__ folder;  
- an __output\_plan.txt__ file, containing the output plan generated by the command listed in the __command.txt__ file.  
  
In case multiple solutions are provided for a given problem, those will be at __problem\_xx/solution\_name__, the folder
being structured as presented above. The __problem\_4__ folder differs since it contains an implementation of the solution 
to __problem\_3__ to be executed within the __plansys2\_infrastructure__.  
  
Additional details on the implementations are illustrated in the "APTP_report.pdf" file.